---
pubDate: 2025-03-08
author: Samridha
title: Tseting QnA
description: "Explore the fundamentals of software testing, including types, techniques, planning, and defect lifecycle, designed for beginners and professionals alike."
image:
  url: "https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1618580747643-7ecc7240ba4e?q=80&w=2787&auto=format&fit=crop&ixlib=rb-4.0.3&ixid=M3wxMjA3fDB8MHxwaG90by1wYWdlfHx8fGVufDB8fHx8fA%3D%3D"
  alt: "Software Testing Illustration"
tags: ["Software Testing", "QA", "SDET"]
---

1. What is software Testing ?
    1. Software Testing involves evaluating and verifying a software product’s functionality. It checks whether the software product matches requirements and it’s defect free.
2. What are the different types of software testing ?
    1. Functional Testing - Unit testing, integration testing, system testing, interface testing, regression testing, user acceptance testing. 
    2. Non functional testing - Performance testing(Load testing, stress testing, endurance testing, spike testing), reliability testing, security testing, documentation testing, installation testing, smoke testing.
- Types of testing
    
    Unit testing - programmatic testing the internal working of a unit of code, such a function of method. It is normally done by developer during development.
    
    Integration testing - Ensures multiple components of system work together as expected and produce required results
    
    Regression testing - Ensures existing features are not broken due to new code changes.
    
    system testing - end-to-end testing done on a completed software to ensure whole system works as expected.
    
    smoke testing - quick test performed to ensure basic level functionalities works as expected when deployed. normally spent around 10-15 minutes.
    
    performance testing - ensures software perform according to user’s expectation by checking the response time, throughput, under specific load and environment.
    
    User Acceptance testing - This is the last step before software is live. ensures the software meets the requirements of the client.
    
    Stress testing - in stress testing, tester subjects the software under heavy load such as high number of requests or stringent memory conditions to verify if it works well.
    
1. What are the principles of testing ?
    1. Absence of errors fallacy - software must be bug free and also meet all the customer requirements
    2. Testing shows the presence of error - testing cannot Guarantee that software is defect-free. Testing can minimize the number of defects, but can’t remove them all.
    3. Exhaustive testing is not possible - all possible test cases cannot be covered. It will cost more and its impractical. you test select few testcases and assume other cases will produce right results
    4. Defect clustering - The majority of defects are typically found in small number of modules. 80% of defects arise from 20% of modules.
    5. Pesticide paradox - it is impossible to find new bugs by re-running the same test cases. This updating new test cases is necessary in order to find new bugs.
    6. Early tesing - in early stages of SDLC, defects will be detected more easily and at lowe cost. 
    7. Testing is context-dependent - testing approach varies depending on the software development context.
2. What is API testing ?
    1. API stands for Application Programming Interface. It is a means for components to communicate. It Abstracts the internal workings and complexity and allows users to focus on input and required output.
3. How does a test coverage tool work ?
    1. code coverage measures how much of program’s source code is covered in test plan. with code coverage tool, you can monitor the execution of statements in your source code.
4. What are the different types of test coverage techniques ?
    1. Statement coverage 
    2. Decision coverage
    3. path coverage
    4. function coverage
5. What is black box, white-box, grey-box testing ?
    1. Blackbox testing - In black-box testing, system is testing only in terms of it’s external behavior. this approach is used in acceptance testing and system testing.
    2. White box testing - A white box testing is a method of testing a program  that takes into account it’s internal workings. It is used in integration testing and unit testing.
    3. Grey-box testing - In this testing we test the software with partial understanding of it’s internal structure.
6. Is automation testing in agile methodology useful ?
    1. Automation testing in agile is very useful. It helps to achieve maximum test coverage in lesser time.
7. Explain test scenario, test case and test script
    1. Test scenario - is a set of test cases that covers the end-to-end functionality of software application.
    2. Test case - is a series of actions executed to verify a particular feature.
    3. Test Script - refers to set of instructions that will be followed in order to verify the system under test.
8. What is a bug ?
    1. bug is an error in software. When is bug is found it is recorded in the bug-tracking system and it is assigned a priority and then assigned to a software developer to fix it. once the developer fixes the problem it is marked ready for testing. tester verifies if the bugs has been fixed and then closes it.
9. What is the difference between bug and error ?
    1. bug - bug is software defect. submitted by tester
    2. error - error occurs when the code is unable to be complied.
10. What is test plan?
    1. Test plan is a dynamic document monitored and maintained by the test manager. It describes the testing scope and activities and it serves as a blueprint for the entire testing process.
    2. it containts - test strategy, test objective, test scope, reason for testing, resource planning, test deliverables.
11. What is a test report ? what does it include ?
    1. Test report is a document that includes total summary of testing. It includes test objectives, test activities and test result.
12. What do you mean by Test Deliverables ?
    1. Test Deliverables are list of documents, tools and other components that are given to stake holders of a software project at the end of Testing.
13. What are the documents involved in testing ?
    1. Before testing phase - Test plan, test design specifications, test cases documents
    2. During Testing phase - Test scripts, Test data, Test traceability matrix, error logs and execution logs.
    3. After Testing Phase - Test Report, Defect report, release notes.
14. What are some common mistakes that lead to major issues ?
    1. Poor Scheduling
    2. improper resource allocation
    3. underestimating
    4. ignoring small issues.
15. What is a user story ?
    1. All softwares have target users. A user story describes the user’s motivation and what they are trying to accomplish.  it ignores the design and implementation details. 
16. What are some software testing frameworks you are familiar ?
    1. selenium - web browser automation tool that automates tests to run on a web site.
    2. Protractor - end-to-end test framework for Angular.
    3. Cypress - front end testing tool for web applications
    4. Junit Nunit - unit testing framework for java and C#
17. What is A/B testing ?
    1. A/B testing is a process of testing two or more different versions of your software with users to assess which performs better. 
18. What is sanity testing in software testing?
    1. After software is build is received, a sanity test is conducted to ensure that changes made to the code are working correctly. The process is undocumented and unscripted. In this approach limited functionalities are tested deeply.
19. What qualities a software tester should have ?
    1. Any software tester’s goal is to find bugs and problems so that the customers don’t have to. So tester should have strong eye for details.
    2. They should know the ins and outs of the software they are testing.
    3. They should have domain knowledge of the application they are testing.
    4. A good tester should keep the end user in mind when they are testing.
    5. Tester should have basic programming knowledge.
    6. Excellent communication skills both written and verbal.
20. What is boundary value analysis in software testing  ? 
    1. Input values near the boundary have higher probability of error, so BVA uses boundary values to create test cases.
21. Explain the role of testing in software development 
    1. In traditional waterfall model - requirements are gathered first and Requirement Specification Document is created. this document drives the Design and development phase. finally tester conduct testing at the end of software development life cycle.
    2. In agile - Software development and testing is done in parallel. Developers build small functionality according to the requirements. The testers test it and get customer feedback, which drives the development.
22. why developers shouldn’t test the software they wrote ?
    1. Since they wrote the software they tend to be optimistic about the software and don’t have correct attitude for testing.
    2. since developers are not trained tester they wont develop sophisticated testcases
    3. They try to test the code to make sure that it works, rather than testing all the ways which it doesn’t work.
23. What is software testing life cycle ?
    1. Requirement analysis 
    2. test planning
    3. testcase development
    4. Test Environment setup
    5. Test execution
    6. test Closure
24. What is alpha testing ?
    1. before you ship the software to customers, internal testing team performs alpha testing.
25. What is beta testing ?
    1. Once you ship the software to customers after alpha testing. Customer performs beta testing. It is the last part of acceptance testing.
26. what is V model in software testing ?
    1. V model also known as validation or verification model. This method consist of associating a testing phase with corresponding development phase.
27. What is the defect life cycle ?
    1. The various stages defect goes through during it’s lifetime.
        1. New, assigned, Active, test, verified, Closed
28. What is Test-Driven-Development ?
    1. In TDD, a developer working on a feature first writes a failing test , then writes just enough code to make that test pass. Once they have a passing test, they add another failing test and then write just enough code to pass the failing test. this cycle repeats until the developer has the fully working features.